Dear Jupyter Foundation search committee,

I'm excited by the opportunity to work with and grow the Jupyter membership and community. Open source ecosystem sustainability has been a passion of mine for decades. In 2025, I had an opportunity to serve the GNOME Foundation as Executive Director and my primary focus was balancing the budget, year-on-year, while working to repair damaged relationships between the Advisory Board (their Premier member equivalent), the board of directors, and the wider community of contributors. Open source projects with diverse stakeholders are each uniquely challenging to maintain, and I enjoyed navigating the nuances of a large and complex projet like GNOME.

During my time at the GNOME Foundation, I made a concerted effort to reach out to the Advisory Board, which I felt was underutilized. Prior to my time as ED, there was no collaborative space for Advisory Board reps. With a kickoff at the all-day, in-person Advisory Board meeting in July of 2025, we started exactly such a forum to bring the Advisory Board and the Foundation closer together throughout the year, and to aid in collaboration. Commercial Advisory Board members at the GNOME Foundation include Red Hat, Canonical, Google, and SUSE.

Within a month of starting in the ED role, I kicked off a project focused on correcting and diversifying revenue streams. This included new grant applications and commercial relationships with organizations like AWS Open Source, but it primarily focused on a pair of websites: https://donate.gnome.org and https://fellowship.gnome.org. The new donation page provided a clear path to growth of recurring revenue. The Fellowship program, which just launched recently, provided a clear justification for individual and corporate donations. More than anything, the GNOME community was demanding clarity and transparency around the Foundation's operations and intentions, and these two programs not only restabilized the Foundation's finances but also rebuilt years of eroded trust. Long-term GNOME contributors like Jakub Steiner [understood and appreciated the significance of these contributions](https://mastodon.social/@jimmac/115133252419668880) on the long arc of GNOME's multi-decade evolution.

Prior to the GNOME Foundation, I worked on two open source database startups (XTDB and Endatabas), where much of my role was marketing, narrative-building, and sales. Before I joined the XTDB team, I founded and ran Nilenso Software, a boutique software consultancy. Although we structured Nilenso as a worker-owned cooperative, a significant portion of my role there was sales and marketing. Throughout these three roles, I spent a lot of time working with Data Science and ML, though not with Jupyter projects specifically. At Nilenso, we built a multivariate experimentation platform and custom models for Staples and we built backend analytics tooling for organizations like simple.org. XTDB has always had a "learn XTDB" (and now, "learn XTQL") tutorial built on Clerk, a Clojure-based interactive notebook which draws much inspiration from Jupyter's pioneering notebook work. More acutely, XTDB is an HTAP bitemporal database, designed specifically for the intersection of operations and data science, like ML backtesting. Endatabas is _not_ bitemporal but it is immutable and supports (optional) time-oriented queries. Since Endatabas is also a columnar HTAP data store, it still supports use cases at the intersection of operations, data science, and ML. Across both organizations, it was my responsibility to construct the narrative for investors, customers, and partners in their respective open source communities. As general-purpose tools, XTDB and Endatabas both solved fundamental problems across industries, particularly finance, healthcare, e-commerce, GIS, and academia.

I've presented multiple keynote speeches over my career, and I genuinely love the challenge of getting to the root of an idea with a team, clarifying it, and presenting it to different audiences. I'm happy to travel and network as the public face of the organization. I love building and supporting teams, especially when the team contributs directly to f/oss.

Considering its significance across both f/oss and science, helping the Jupyter Foundation grow throughout its early years would be an honour. I am very fortunate to know both Yuvi and April, from the Indian f/oss community and the ThoughtWorks alumni network, respectively. Their positive descriptions of the wider Jupyter projects and communities have always intrigued me. When I applied for the Jupyter Hub/Book Community Manager role, I joined the Jupyter Zulip and read through many GitHub conversations. The amount of positive and productive energy in (and around) the Jupyter communities is remarkable.

This is a critical juncture for the Jupyter projects to ensure that positive energy continues into the future. Thanks to the past twelve years of my career, I'm well-equipped to strengthen Jupyter Foundation members' relationships by bringing clarity to the value of their investment.

I'm always happy to speak to anyone from the Jupyter Foundation board or the Jupyter community about how I've managed organizations in the past, my philosophy on open source sustainability, or any other question you folks may have.

All the best,
-steven
